# Computational searches for fractional Calabi-Yau algebras

## Introduction

This repository was created whilst working on my 2023 [LMS URB](https://www.lms.ac.uk/grants/undergraduate-research-bursaries) project: 
Computational searches for fractional Calabi-Yau algebras, supervised by Dr Joseph Grant (UEA).

***
There are two collections of code (written in Python and GAP) contained in ``py_src`` and ``gap_src`` respectively. 
Due to speed issues, the GAP code was eventually abandoned in favour of Python. As a result, the focal point of this repository is the Python code. The GAP code will not be documented nor explained, but is included for completeness.

## Mathematical Motivation

Given $n \geq 3$, we can construct the linear quiver $Q_n$. This is a quiver of the form $$1 \rightarrow 2 \rightarrow \ldots \rightarrow n-1 \rightarrow n,$$
with the vertices naturally labelled by elements of $\mathbb{N}$. By then choosing a field $k$, 
we can use $Q_n$ to form the path algebra $kQ_n$, on which we can introduce relations. A relation is a non-zero path (of length $\geq 2$) which we define to be zero. 
This involves forming the quotient algebra $kQ_n / I$, where $I$ is the ideal generated by the relations.
***

It is known that, if $I = ()$, then $kQ_n/I$ is fractional Calabi-Yau (fCY) for any $n$. However, less is known when $I$ is non-zero.
This repository's major motivation was to produce code that allows for testing whether $kQ_n/I$ is fCY. <br>

This is implemented in two different ways: (1) by testing whether the matrix obtained from the projective resolution of the injectives has finite order,
and (2) by repeatedly applying the Serre functor until it is isomorphic to a shift, hence obtaining the Calabi-Yau dimension of the algebra.

## Dependencies
This code has been written and tested for Python 3.10.12, though probably works on other versions. <br> 
NumPy is the only required library.


## Getting Started
The best place to get started is by following the interactive tutorial ``tutorial.ipynb`` (requires Jupyter) in the ``py_src`` directory.
